(bright electronic music)
All right, now let's talk about
null and undefined.
So there's two ways to sort of express nothing in JavaScript
and they are with undefined and null.
So if we create a variable and don't set anything to it,
so lets' say let dog and then we console.log(dog)
what is going to be?
It's actually this thing that is called undefined.
In undefined is essentially
something that has been created a variable,
but yet is not yet defined.
Same thing that actually goes for properties
on something that don't exist.
If we go back to this person object we had
and we say like person.age, there's also a value there,
but if we do person.dog, it gives us undefined.
Why? 'Cause there's nothing there, right?
So that's what undefined is.
Undefined comes about when you tried to access
either a variable which has been created, but not set,
so that's the difference.
'Cause if I just go on and grab
some random variable like wes,
we get an error, 'cause wes is not defined (chuckles).
It's just kind of confusing,
but I've never created a variable.
But here I've created a dog variable,
but I've not yet set any value to it.
So by default the browser will set that
to undefined until we go ahead
and actually set it to something like this
and then you see the dog is actually set to a string.
So that's what undefined is.
The other one we have is null.
So these values right here, dog is undefined,
but where does null come in?
Null is a value of nothing,
whereas undefined is
a variable that has not yet have a value set to it.
So let me show you the example.
So const somethingUndefined is that,
and then we also wanna look at const somethingNull
and that has to be explicitly set to null
before it can actually be null.
So undefined is something that has no value set to it.
Null is something that has a value of nothing.
So I was just like looking for an example.
Oh, my, how can I explain this?
'Cause this is such a confusing and they're both nothing,
but they're both nothing in different ways.
And I found this concept of Mononymous person.
So somebody like Cher, I don't what Cher's last name is.
So Cher, const cher
is equal to an object
and the first name is cher
and I don't know what Cher's last name is,
I bet she doesn't even have one.
So let's go and take a look at what her last name is.
Oh, missing initializer on line 63,
const somethingUndefined.
Oh, I gotta,
because you cannot const a value
where it has no value to it,
so you have to make it a let
in order for it be undefined.
There we go. Okay.
Anyway, let's back with Cher.
Cher is an object, but Cher's last name is undefined,
'cause it's never been set.
She was born with no last name.
Whereas, I found a really cool example,
Penn and Teller, legally...
Let me bump this up for you.
Penn and Teller, legally,
so Teller from Penn and Teller,
legally changed his original polynym, Raymond Joseph Teller
to the mononym "Teller"
and possesses a United States passport
issued with a single name.
So, therefore, what he did in his life
is const teller is equal to his first name was Raymond
and last name was Teller
and then what he did is he said teller.first
is equal to Teller
and then teller.last is equal to null,
so he explicitly set his last name to be nothing
with a null value.
And then if anyone want to ever to look it up,
so let's take a look here, teller.last
is a value of null,
whereas, cher.last is undefined,
'cause she probably never had a last name,
we don't know.
It can't be known, nobody knows.
And that's goes a little bit deeper
if you where to get into the delete keyword
where a delete keyword will allow you
to delete properties on an object,
but that's for another video.
We're gonna stop it right here and jump in to next one.